  I received brochure packages from many colleges, but applied to only the top engineering schools
and was accepted at M.I.T.  To afford it, the Naval ROTC was somehow chosen despite my having no
interest in boats or the sea.  I was assured that I would be working in a Naval computer center.
  The summer before my freshman year I spent at a ROTC (pronouned rot-sea) camp where I was marched
around endlessly wearing an uncomfortable woolen work uniform and boots that apparently needed
polishing every day.  It was difficult to achieve the proper tuck of the shirt because the fabric
was so thick, and the Staff Sgt who marched us around punished failrues with push-ups.
"Drop and give me ten" was a phrase you'd expect to hear a dozen times a day.  The list of 
possible infractions were many.  I suspected the sarge thought them up as a game.  He enjoyed
calling us "college boys" in an almost comically sarcastic tone.  He wasn't necessarily a bad
person, but he polished his issues to shine like his boots.  He was a marine and we were
navy and that probably had something to do with it.  The navy existed to give the marines a ride.
  We ate runny scrambled eggs for breakfast and MREs for lunch and dinner.  A Meal-Ready-to-Eat
is a small cardboard box that usually tasted better than the "meal" it contained.  You would
open the box and remove three cans painted olive drab for easy littering.  One can contained
crackers, and you would open that first using a wicked little blade that came in the box.
After removing your stack of crackers, you'd cut holes around the base.  That can was now
your stove which you'd start using fuel pellets and matches containing in the second can.
While your stove was heating up, you would engage in attempts to trade your third can with
someone else.  Spaghetti was white mush in red sauce.  Beef was brown mush with marble-sized
potatoes, a dish known as cow and rocks.  Anything else you learned to pawn off on one of 
your new friends as an exercise in comraderie.
  One afternoon, after circling the base for a couple of hours--"left, left, left-right-left,
your-left-your-right, your-right-your-left, left, right, left"--we finally achieved perfection.
The sarge went silent, and after a bit said:  "You all listening to yourselves?"  We'd all been
day-dreaming about life as we used to know it.  But, listening, our platoon was one giant pair
of boots, perfectly in sync, beautiful until awareness fouled it up.
  Another afternoon, we were taken to the range and given thorough training.  Downrange were
junked cars.  A .45 Colt was a handful.  It kicked hard and would make a hole in a car door
and another hole in the opposite door.  An M-16 felt like a toy.  A round would rip a fist-sized
hole in a car door but be stopped by the inner liner.  We were told the bullets were designed
to tumble in the air to cause maximum damage to a human target.  I noted that the cadets with 
southern accents were especially appreciative of that outing.
  Finally, school started.  All freshmen were gathered in one of the largest lecture halls.
One suit after another walked up to the podium and said generic stuff.  Then, an ancient guy
in an obviously expensive suit slowly took the stage, adjusted the mic, and said:
"M.I.T. is in this for the money.  If you get an education out of this place, that's your business."
Some kids laughed experimentally.  But then the guy walked off and that part of orientation was over.
  Next some upperclassmen took the stage to field questions.  "Where's the best pizza?"
Blah, blah.  "What do you like most about M.I.T.?"  That got a dumb, rambling answer that went
on far too long.  So I asked, hoping for a humorous response, "What do hate about M.I.T.?"
And a guy I knew I wouldn't like answered:  "Dorm nerds."  So I decided I would opt for the dorms.
  Which turned out to be a complete joke.  Dorm rooms were randomly assigned, and mine was in
Random Hall, the only one with a stupid name.  Someone circled its location on my campus map,
and I lugged my sea bag there, past a giant factory building with a blank comcrete face that
smelled like toothpaste (and turned out to be the birthing place of Necco candy wafers)
to what had clearly once been an old hotel.  When I got there I learned the dorm rooms had
been overbooked and that I would be living in a temporary space.  The desk person walked me
from the main entrance to the alternate entrace whose lobby area had been curtained off.
For me.  And for my roommate, who was a super nice guy from Kalamazoo, Michigan, and named
Ogden Sterling Jones.  He was sitting on a bed behind the curtain unpacking his suitcase
into one of the two dressers luxuriously provided.  We were in that "room" for six months.
In winter, every time someone came in, wind-driven snow would blow in, under and around the
curtain, blowing homework from our desks and dampening our blankets.  People would stomp their
boots in the lobby to knock of the snow and then clomp up the staircase supporting one end
of our curtain, talking loudly, and often laughing at our plight. 
  Finally, someone moved out and I was reassigned to room with a guy name Mike Matter, and 
huge, frizzy-haired dude who had a monstrous stack of stereo equipment crowned by his food 
supplies which included the three gallon plastic container of Tang whose lid he never really
screwed on because he made four glasses of the stuff every hour.  One day when I was leaving
in a hurry, I slammed the door and heard a whooshing sound inside the room.  I looked in and 
saw the container had tipped over, it's lid had popped off, and orange Tang
powder had poured into the vents on the top of his fancy amplifier.  Well, there you go.
  Classes were hard.  Unlike my public school experience where the teachers obviously 
coordinated lessons such that I'd walk out of calculus class and into physics where I'd 
immediately apply what I'd just learned, college subjects were taught disjointedly and
poorly.  I quickly learned that some lectures were simply a waste of time.  And there was 
so much homework that freshmen quickly formed groups where each week you would copy the 
homework from another group while you worked on the homework for other classes.
Upperclassmen assured us that was the best strategy.  It felt stupid.  My computer science
classes were the ones I really wanted to care about.  But for month after month, everything
was done in the LiSP computing language (short for Lots of Irritating, Stupid Parentheses).
Let's build little tiny things in this little tiny language.  Now let's build slightly bigger
things using those little tiny things.  And on.  A principle that could have been taught
(and thoroughly driven home) in maybe a month, went on for weeks.  Most everyone in those
classes was already familiar with better computing languages, languages actually being used
in various industries.  It was purely academic exercises.  I kept waiting for it to get better.
  But my girlfriend informed me it didn't.  Kennita was a senior and also in the CS program.
She was so wonderful.  My first real relationship.  She had a room of her own in the newest
dorm and I moved in with her.  Bye, Mr. Tang.  
  As the end of the year approached, a couple of things happened.  First, the Navy came
clean about a detail of the scholarship.  They had told us we would graduate and be working
in a Navy computer center.  Not true.  After graduation, most of us would be assigned to a ship,
and put in charge of people scrubbing and painting things.  If we opted out now, we owed
the Navy nothing.  Stay and you were in for that ride.  Bye, Navy.  But, bye, scholarship, too.
The day I told them I was quitting, the officer asked if I wouldn't miss it.  I tried to 
think of something I had appreciated.  One of my Navy classes was taught by a pilot who was
easy going and interesting.  I remembered someone once asking him if he'd ever done any
sky-diving.  His usual smile disappeared and he looked at us, scanning the room to make sure
we were all paying attention to perhaps the most important thing he would ever tell us:
"There is no excuse for leaving a functioning aircraft."  I'd miss that guy, a bit.
  Second thing, my girlfriend had lined up a job with a telecom company in Santa Clara, CA.
I arranged to go with her.  
  I liked California.  I could feel my hair growning.  I wasn't facing a daily mountain of howwork.  
But when you're unemployed, you wake up on the job.  Throwing my wispy resume at a couple of 
recruiters, I quickly landed a summer internship at Visa, a suit-and-tie place where huge transfers of 
money were settled between banks every day by IBM mainframes running COBOL programs being
maintained by a group of fifty-somethings who had put skeletons in every closet.  The software
was scary-fragile and it's huge bookkeeping job that ran in the wee hours each night would
often crash, requiring expert hand-holding by this group of idiots who hadn't written down 
any of their procedures.  I was expected to learn their ropes by osmosis.  They became 
evasive when asked questions.  Eventually I found a guy who would talk to me, and I wrote
down everything he said.  I drew architecture and process diagrams, and eavesdropped on the 
manuevers they would perform when the shit routinely hit the fan.   At the end of the summer,
I presented an operations manual of their own system.  None showed any interest.  So I threw
that three-ring binder in my cardboard box the day I left.  At my car, I saw my boss running
across the parking lot, waving.  He wanted that binder.  Having nothing to lose, I asked him why.
  "Well, uh--"
  I tossed the box on the passenger seat, got in the car, closed the door and started the engine.
I felt like telling him it would cost him a thousand dollars, but just waited while he 
tried to make noises about how it was their property.
  I rolled the windown down a crack and said:  "What you really mean is that it occurred to 
you that if your crew of cronies were hit by a beer truck on their way back from lunch one day, 
your sloppy management might mean the downfall of the company."
  "Well, I wouldn't--"
  "That the document I wrote, that you should have had written, that they didn't want written
because it made them all irreplaceable employees, might one day save your own job."
  The truth, the future, hit him like a tranquilizer dart.
  He wasn't a bad guy, just lame.  I told him I'd mail it to him.  And I did, after I'd made a copy
using the giant Xerox at my girlfriend's office.
  I liked my girlfriend's office.  I liked her coworkers, some of whom were also from M.I.T.
They were writing code to control telephone equipment, using Pascal.   In public school, I'd had
access to a computer terminal located in a tiny room next to that of the truant officer.
It was a chonky typewriter with a spool of yellow paper (no screen) and even a paper tape puncher-reader.
It was connected to the University of Minnesota computer system, a Control Data mainframe.
I used it to learn a language named ForTran (short for Formula Translation).  At one point I 
visited the campus' bookstore and bought a book on the Pascal programming language.  Why they
had the book I don't know; their mainframe did not support that language.
But I thought it was cool, and wrote Pascal programs on paper with a pen because I didn't
have a girlfriend in high school.  In the summer after eleventh grade, I decided I wanted to 
use Pascal for real and went back to the bookstore and bought a book on how to write a compiler,
the software that would let a computer use a particular programming language.  I spent the summer
working on my Pascal compiler.  The book taught a classic approach in which language compilation,
the transformation of code written in a computer language like Pascal into the gnarlier language 
that the mainframe could actually run, was done in seven stages.  The first stages were about
making sure the program was syntactically correct, that any variables were specified correctly
before they were being used, etc.  Then there was a stage where psuedo-code was generated, 
a less gnarly form that would then be used to generate the actual machine code that would run.
I ran out of summer on that step, and was bummed.  But in a moment of inspiration, I changed
my psudeo-code generator to spit out ForTran and then pass that on the the ForTran compiler
that the U's mainframe already had.  And just like that, I saved a ton of work and got my 
Pascal compiler running.  And for a moment I felt like I had both triumphed and cheated myself.
But then I asked, what was I trying to accomplish?  To program in Pascal.  What had I lost?
The experience of building the last three stages of the compiler.  So I flipped through the
rest of the book going "sure, right, I see", and parked it on the shelf.  On early resumes 
I would list it as an accomplishment but was only asked about it once; it was like a confessional,
but the interviewer remarked of my out-of-time get-it-working solution:  clever.
I decided I could live with that.  In any case, I knew more about Pascal than my girlfriend
or any of her work buds.  I asked to see their code, could see ways they weren't using the
language to their best advantage, but I was able to ignore the urge to seem worthy of their
respect and risk sounding condescending because I realized something bigger:  they'd graduated,
I hadn't, yet I could do their job better than they could, so I needn't ever see Random Hall again.
I just typed up a new resume and was off and running.
  My girlfriend was happy to have full use of her car again.  While working at Visa, a much longer
commute than hers, she'd let me use it while she car-pooled.  It was a Honda Accord, bought new
the same week she'd found her/our apartment.  The route to her job was on an expressway, 
three lanes wide each way, center median, lights every quarter- to half-mile.  One evening, 
while she was driving, she tried to tell me how to save gas.  She'd seen the lights change to 
yellow a quarter mile ahead and she tried to push the shifter from drive to neutral, not understanding
that when her foot was off the gas pedal the engine was basically idling.  Unfortunately, 
the shifter went past neutral and into reverse.  I believe she must have also pushed the
shifter button that allowed it to go into reverse.  Being a front-wheel drive car, the little Honda 
pracctically stood on its nose while making metal shearing sounds both deafening and brief.
I believe the trans-axel must have locked one wheel and not the other, the car spun out of its
lane and into the stout fence hidden by the median bushes.  Amazingly, the dealer accepted a
bullshit story about the car "just doing that" and repaired the thing.  I got a broken nose 
and enjoyed interviewing with black eyes and an entertaining story.
  It turned out that having an entertaining story made one highly marketable.  I learned
that interviewers loved to hear tales of idiocies perpetrated by one's former coworkers.
Couched properly, they could be morphed from entertainment to cautionary tales and thence to
polite belief that such nonsense could never happen at their establishment.  Telling a good
story let you skip over tedious questions about competence by making you seem world-wise.
The real question interviewers really want answered is whether they want to work with you.
This approach didn't work on everyone.  People for whom English was a second language often 
would not appreciate humor in an interview.  I learned to float tiny trial balloons to see
if I could get a smile.  On one occasion, a guy and I were guffawing and loudly using curse words
within two minutes of meeting each other.
  Some interviewers wanted to know about my unfinished degree.  I told them about the Navy, and
that my plan was to save money to go back and finish.  (Or enjoy life and buy a house, though
I didn't say that, just did it.)  That satisfied those who asked.  I know people even now who
have asked about my lack of a degree.  At one place I worked, fifteen years into my career,
a few weeks after I was hired, one of the managers who'd hired me approached my desk and quietly asked:  
"Are you a self-made man?" I nodded and he went away, but whether we were on the same page there 
I do not know.
  Some interviews were scary.  I was sent out for positions at places like Lockheed and Raytheon where,
after being grilled on my skills, I would be passed along to someone authorized to tell what 
the job entailed.  "So, in the oceans, right, there are submarines, each with, say, twenty ICBMs,
and, on a moment's notice, the sub surfaces and launches them in a sequence designed not to 
snap the spine of the boat.  So, yeah, then you've got them flying, east mostly, but they can be 
reprogrammed on the way, to suborbital altitudes where they roll over and a door pops open on
the side so a camera can take a look at the stars.  Like, there's Orion, right?  The door closes,
the computer knows where it is, steers the fins and goes nose down.  A few seconds later a cap
pops off the tip of the nose.  Behind that cap is a cylinder of boron glass yay (a foot or so) long
with another camera at other end.  Now it's looking at the Earth, the terrain.  But there might 
be clouds, so, maybe nothing to see for a few seconds, maybe a minute.  By then the glass 
cylinder is melting, but smoothly, and the camera is looking through the melting glass and the 
computer is going, okay, there's the Black Sea, and it steers a bit, and then, there's Moscow."  
They needed someone else.  I found out I simply could not even consider Ordinance Delivery.
 

