Friday June 6, 1987

I was 25, and in the thick of what I think of as my testosterone years.
Earlier that year some old friends from Minnesota had come out to California
and I had found us a house to rent.  They had all brought motorcycles, and I had
just started a personal campaign of racing on the weekends.  One of my friends
was an aircraft mechanic and we rebuilt the engines on everything we had
multiple times because we blew them up multiple times, my race bike practically
every other week.  On the rare occasions I wasn't rebuilding that bike during the week
I was riding it to work to determine if the latest tune had improved power.
No turn signals, mirrors, license plate, lights.  Track tires and crazy loud exhaust.
Blood red bodywork and leather onesie to match, both with black asphalt scuffs.
I ran from police routinely with perfect success.  Ponch and Johns were worthy
but unwilling to split lanes at a hundred plus.  Their Kawi-thouies were wide bikes, 
they wore those short sleeve shirts and open face helmets, and the shoulders had too much glass and gravel.
  That afternoon I left work early.  Hwy 237 is a dozen miles to the house, straight
with stop lights every mile or two.  Ideal for practicing my launch technique and 
listening for unacceptable engine noises at redline.  The house was at the end of Knights Bridge Road.
No cul du sac, just a fence with a few acres of apple trees on the other side.  Nice day.  Very quiet.  
Most driveways were still empty.  I kept the revs down for the stay-at-homes enjoying their soaps.
My driveway was also empty which meant Beverly was out buying groceries for the Friday BBQ.
It was her only job outside the house.  I pulled up and shut the bike down and pulled off my helmet,
unlocked the front door and went through to the garage and hit the opener.  
I was starting to push the bike into the garage when I heard it.
  It was a sound Bev had told me she heard sometimes in the afternoons when she was
sunbathing in the back yard.  A woman crying, begging, terrified.  
I never asked Bev why she didn't call 911.  She was cop-phobic, got both good and bad twitchy 
when I drove too fast with her.  I figured she had warrants.  She had very few
possessions.  Traveled light, she said.  I never saw ID and wondered if I knew her real name.
But the sound was real, primal, and couldn't have been far.  Not coming from the orchard, so somewhere
easier.  I left the bike and pulled my gloves off because the plan of action that automatically
popped up required bare hands.  I had never worn gloves while holding a gun.
  In my roommate's room I did a quick search for his Glock.  I liked it.  At the range
I'd found it more manageable.  But I found the Colt first.  A .45 revolver in stainless steel.
Hand cannon.  Big, noticeable.  I pulled the zip on my leathers a bit up from my 
crotch and tucked it inside and headed out and down the sidewalk, listening.  
  The houses had all been built at the same time.  Ranch style.  All the same layout.  
The third house on our side belonged to Sal.  His sheriff's cruiser was parked in his driveway.  
On the weekends, he would wheel out his '64 Corvette for the world to admire.  We were jealous.  
One day not long after our move in when we were all out in the driveway working on my Firebird,
a '71 with the 455, adjusting its gnarly growl, Sal had walked up and introduced himself,
pointing back toward his house and the green and white cruiser.  He'd said he personally 
didn't mind the noise but knew certain neighbors would soon complain.  He advised we adopt a 
9PM cutoff and also that we introduce ourselves to everyone in a friendly way,
pass out our phone number so they would be inclined to tell us when enough was enough 
rather than call the cops.  One of my roommates suggested a BBQ and Sal said that sounded 
like a fine idea.  So that became the Friday tradition, a weekly bribe.
  I walked slowly, holding the gun inside the red leather, feeling awkward but not as
stupid as I would have holding the shiny pistol for whoever to see.  And as I got to Sal's
I heard it again.  No question, that house.  I thought, maybe he's watching a video.
His TV had to be in the same spot ours was, back of the house in the living room near the
sliding glass doors.  I thought I'd look and if that was it, I'd figure some way to mention
sometime later that he might want to keep those doors closed, maybe install AC.  That's what
I was thinking as I snuck along the side of his house.  I got to the corner and took my peek.
The sliding doors were open and his TV was where I expected.  It was off.  The woman was 
definitely inside.  So I stepped into his living room.  It was still possible it was a video,
if he had a TV in his bedroom.  It was through a square archway that led to a short hall.
The master bedroom door had to be open from what I was hearing.  I thought that even if I peeked
through and he happened to see me, I could explain why I was in his house.  Might get awkward,
especially if he was jerking off on his bed.  But hey.
  A few weeks before he had offered to let me ride along in his cruiser for a few hours
on a Monday afternoon.  I skipped work for it.  How often was I going to get a chance to 
see the world from that perspective?  Maybe learn a thing or two about how the other side thought.
Nothing exciting had happened, and Sal told me it often didn't.  The cops patroled much more
than the sheriffs did, and were usually the first to handle most situations.  Still, it had 
felt like a real welcome, almost a bonding experience.  I was grateful, and had told him so.
  With those positives in mind, I leaned around the archway.  Sal was standing in the doorway
to the master bedroom.  He was wearing his uniform boots and trousers, but no gun belt and no shirt.
In fact, he held his regular belt in his left hand.  The buckle dangled near the floor.
I could see over his shoulder into the room.  His wife, Dee, was standing on their bed.  
Or rather, she had one foot on the top of the headboard and the other on a nightstand with her
back pressed against the wall.  She was naked, and covered in bruises, scabbed in places, with 
a few fresh bleeding welts, breasts to knees.  And over her husband's shoulder, she saw me.
  Her expression changed from animal to human.  She recognized me, but what was
I doing there?  Sal saw the change, saw her eyes, and started to turn his head.
  The calculation for me was easy, flashcard stuff.  I couldn't allow him to see me, I couldn't
allow him to continue.  I pulled the .45 out of my leathers and fired.  The ACP round is subsonic,
but loud at the range and absolutely deafening in a residential hallway.  I hadn't braced my arm
and the recoil sent the gun back and punched my shoulder, luckily an area with a plastic armored 
pad under the leather.  Sal went down, face to the carpet.  At the edge of my narrowed vision
I saw Dee jump from the bed, to the left, toward the master bath, leaving smears on the wall.
  I turned to leave, automatically moving to tuck the gun back under my leather, but stopped myself.
I felt the barrel with my fingertips.  Not even warm from a single round.  Safe to put near my t-shirt.
I left.
  Walking back toward my house, I told myself not to run, but I wasn't running.  I think I was stunned.
Audibly, intellectually, emotionally.  Still no cars in other driveways.
By the time I reached my driveway and walked into the garage
the full emergency hit me.  Now what?  From the workbench I took a fresh shop rag from the bag and
wiped the gun.  Then I found the biggest screwdriver we had, an ancient thing with an orange and black
striped handle.  We used it mostly as a pry bar.  I stuck the end in the gun barrel and walked through
the house, the living room, our sliding glass doors, into the brown grass of the back yard.  Standing
about ten feet from the redwood fence I cranked back and threw the Colt as far into the orchard
as I possibly could.  Then I walked back to the garage and put the screwdriver away, binned the rag,
scrubbed my hands and leather sleeve with a fresh rag spritzed with grease remover, binned it, 
sat on the step leading inside and unzipped my boots, unzipped the cuffs of my leathers and 
started peeling them off.  I was mostly out when I heard my Firebird, about three blocks away.
  Beverly was reamrkably deft with the clutch.  There were three stop signs on our road, two 
on a slight upward slope.  She didn't stall the engine or spin the tires.
I was slipping on the old pair of tennis shoes I kept in the garage
when she pulled up.  The breeze through the house made my sweaty skin prickle.  She gave the
Firdbird's throttle a quick tap in greeting and shut it down and got out, dressed as usual.
Gym shorts and t-shirt, same as me.
  "Home early," she said.  Beverly had a low voice that reminded me of Katherine Hepburn.
She was thoroughly tanned and her auburn hair was sun-bleached to a lighter red.  She never 
wore a bra, counting on logos to keep her nipples from showing through her/my shirts.
Penzoil that day.  Wiggling up in her flip-flops she said, "You can help unload."
Her tongue tasted like ice cream.
  I got out the big plastic coolers and grabbed the bags of ice from the trunk, layering in
the green bottles of beer.  Rolling Rock was our brand that summer.  In between the clinking
of glass I was straining for the sounds of sirens, but my ears were still ringing.  I went around
back and wheeled out the Weber and filled it with charcoal.  I gave it a very liberal dousing
of lighter fluid and then stepped back to where I was out of the fume zone and struck a
wooden match, tossing it in the same gesture ala my dad.  Mushroom cloud.  
I wondered if I was too wired to have sex one last time.
  In the kitchen Bev was slapping hamburger into patties.  I turned her around and boosted
her up onto the counter.  Ice cream.  Probably a Frosty from Wendy's.  She grabbed my shirt
and pulled it over my head and wiped her hands on it and tossed it in the sink.
Ready to go, as per.  Roof, food, TV, weed, no job, an arrangement established the day we met.
She pointed her toes and kicked off her sandals.  I heard them hit the cabinets and then
the floor, but then she tensed and said, "Hear that?"
She turned her head.  Her hair was cute, short, and ultra fine, and it brushed my nose.
Very pleasant.  "Wow," she said.  Then I heard the sirens.  They weren't just in the 
neighborhood.  They were coming up our road.  Several species.  Different departments.
On our block now.  She stared at me in panic.  Blue eyes very wide.  Now what?
  The bike could be run down the sidewalk, across lawns if need be.  I could grab my 
badge and hide in my office at work, maybe even get the bike in there.  No.  I could 
fly up to San Francisco and beg a friend to help me.  Hit my bank, maybe.  Then fly again.
South?  North?  Planes were probably out.  
  "It's cool," I said.  I pulled my shirt on inside out and stepped around to the front door.
  It was a parade.  Three cop cars, ambulance, and a damn fire engine.  The cops slewed to
diagonals in front of Sal's.  The ambulance and fire engine stopped on either side of the street.
So, lawns then.  And far side of the fire engine in case the cops started shooting.
I went into the garage and muscled my bike around so it was pointed out and 
started pulling my sticky leathers back on.  I got as far as my boots when I realized it 
should already be too late.  I stuck my head out of the big garage door.  No uniforms
were running up the sidewalk toward our house that I could see.  Lawns, I thought, and
peered out further to scan the neighbors' azaleas and whatnot.  Nope.
  "Where ya goin'?" Bev asked, her voice an octave higher.
  "Nowhere."
  "Can I come?"
  I made a decision and started unzipping the clammy cowhide.  After I was out again, I 
went to my bedroom, our bedroom, the master, stripped and put on fresh everything.  Jeans, socks.
May as well be less uncomfortable.  "I don't know what's going on," I said to Bev.
  "I don't think I can climb the fence."  She had her tennies on now, white with 
polka dots.
  "Won't need to."
  Out front, I sat on the hood of the Firebird.  A nice metallic blue.
  Everyone was inside Sal's house.  For a long time.  I considered smoking a joint.
There was nothing to see for so long, I grabbed a beer.  Then at last the paramedics 
rolled Sal out, not in a bag.  Walking close behind was Dee, in a hoodie and long pants.
I realized that was how she was always dressed.  Two medics collapsed the gurney and slid it
into their rig, and then one of them extended a hand and helped Dee up and in.
Another closed the doors, then got behind the wheel.  It made a multi-point turn because 
the fire engine was in the way.  Then it drove away, lights and siren.
  "What's happening?"
  "Sal got brought out of his house on a stretcher.  Dee went with."
  "Shit," Bev said, sidling out of the garage.  "Wow," hands in her hair, nervous near so many 
flashing lights.
  The fire engine left, backing to the cross street and heading off in a different direction
than they'd come.  Then an unmarked cop car arrived and a detective went inside.  I opened another
beer.  I was halfway through it when one of my roommates came home.  Eric had to park on the side street.
He waved, I waved back.
  "Holy crap," he said, leaning on the fender.
  "Sal got taken out on a stretcher."
  He grabbed a beer.  "We still grillin'?"
  "Ready to go."  I thought about it.  "But maybe we shouldn't do it out front this time.
If neighbors come, it might seem--"
  "Like entertainment."
  "Yeah."
  "What's the word?"
  "Crass?"
  He nodded.  "Something."  He looked at the Weber.  "Think we can move it hot?"
  "If we're careful.  'S got wheels."
  Then Rob came home.  Then finally Bill.  A few neighbors.  No more cops.
  We ate burgers in the back yard.  Beverly drank and smoked and laughed a bit more than usual.
  When Bill went inside to grab his tin of tobacco, I followed and then lead him to the garage
and closed the door.  
  "Dude," I said.  "Got to tell you something."
  "Yeah?"  Wary.
  "Your Colt."
  "Yeah?"  Louder.
  I put a finger against my lips.  "I used it."
  He just glanced at me, probably thinking that Beverly seemed okay.
  I tipped my head.  
  "You--" he started to say. 
  I nodded.  I said, "He was beating on Dee.  Really bad."
  His eyes moved as he considered it from different angles.  "And you fuckin'--"
  I nnodded.
  "Where?"
  "Lower back I think."
  "No, you ... where's the gun."
  "I threw it in the orchard."
  "You--"
  I held up a hand.  "I know.  I need to find it."
  "You--it's registered to me!"
  "I know.  We need to dump it."
  "We?"  
  "I'll need your help.  I figure it might take two of us to remove the serial number.
I think we'll have to use hand tools."
  He inventoried the workbench.  The only battery-operated thing we had was a hobby Dremel and it
was broken.
  "Shit.  Yeah.  When?"
  "Say, two?"
  He nodded.  Then he said, "Why didn't you use the Glock?"
  "Couldn't find it."
  "Thank fuckin' God."
  "Why?"
  "Because, dumbass, the Glock ejects shells.  With my fingerprints on 'em."
  Two on the dot.  We grabbed a vice and every tool we could find that might successfully
attack stainless steel and put them in his truck.  Finding the gun took a half hour with flashlights.  
It helped that it was so shiny.  Bill extracted the shells and pocketed them.  Then we drove to Alviso, 
a weird area at the southern tip of the San Francisco bay.  To remove the number we ended up
using a hammer and punch set.  After an early bad swing that nearly broke my finger and sent a
punch flying past his face and out into the weeds, we held the punch in place with locking pliers.
It took about two hours.  When the number was gone Bill removed the spent shell from his pocket
and ceremoniously wiped it, flicked open the Colt, inserted it, and wiped again, rags in both hands.  
I handed the big screwdriver to him.
  "Your gun," I said.  "Should be you."
  "Plus my arms ain't puny."  He rammed the screwdriver in and out of the barrel for a solid minute.
Either to defeat forensics or make it unusable if found.  I figured the brackish water would
help too.  Then he gave it a good arc and we heard the splash.
  We waited a week before I bought him a new Colt.
  During that week I had butterflies and was mostly useless at work.  Things were okay with Bev though.
  Friday, we wheeled out the grill as usual and all the neighbors showed.  The prevailing theories were
heart attack, stroke, and frying pan.
  Weeks went by with no news.  The last Friday of August I'm biting a dog when I see Dee pushing
Sal past the side of their house and then up the block.  He didn't look paralized in the chair,
but he didn't look good.  Everyone wanted to know.  How was he?  What happened?  It was interesting
to see who asked what first.  I interrupted.  "First, we need to know:  Sal, can you drink beer?"
  He shook his head and croaked, "No.  Meds."  Bev ran inside and pulled an old bottle of 
Saint Pauli Girl from some trench in the back of the fridge.
  Then Dee did the talking.  "It was a burglar.  He came in with a ski mask on.  He saw Sal and shot
him from behind.  I hid in the bathroom.  He stole a whole bunch of my jewelry.  But whatever.
Sal's going to be okay."  Qualified.  "He lost a kidney, some intestine.
The bullet missed his spine, but the shockwave did a bunch of nerve damage."
  Someone asked if Sal would be going back to work.
  "Desk jockey," he said.  
  Bev asked them if they wanted a burger or a dog.  Sal said, "Dog.  With everything you've got."
  "Dee?" I said, risking eye contact.
  "Burger," she said.
  Eric said, "Coming right up, if rare is okay."
  I grabbed a Rolling Rock from the cooler and opened it and handed it to Dee.
She took it over Sal's shoulder and said to me, "Thank you."  Eye contact.  But that was that.  
  Except for thinking about what she must have done after I'd left.
  The burglar story was pretty iffy.  But no recently fired weapon was found.  I'm sure the cops
checked she didn't shoot Sal with his own gun.  She must have flushed her jewelry.
And put her clothes on before calling 911, because Sal wasn't in jail.  Bandaids and gauze before clothes.  
And cleaned her blood off the wall.  Slug in that wall?  Two crimes, one scene.
Maybe put stuff in the washer.  Bleach.  But why?  Love?  Or to try to simplify a story that was already
going to be hard to tell straight?  To keep me out of it?  Thank you?
  Beverly never mentioned not hearing the woman anymore.  She liked things simple, too.
  Some days I can rationalize it, but I don't really know if I saved a life by almost taking one,
or countered sickness with a dose of ruin.
