  Two moonies are busy shoveling moon dust into their truck.
Each shovel can hold a half kilogram of dust.
Each moonie can put 3 shovelfuls of dust into the truck every minute.
How many kilograms of dust can they put in their truck in 5 minutes?

  "Hey, Mookie," one moonie said to the other.
  "Yeah, Moogie?" asked Mookie.
  "Do you hear that?  Old Borby is coming!" said Moogie in alarm.
  "Oh, no!" said Mookie.  "How far away is he?"
  Moogie put down his shovel and looked through his monocular (moonies only have one eye 
on the top of their heads).  Then he said, "Six kilometers away."
  Mookie said, "And he can only go 2 kilometers per minute, right?"
  Moogie answered, "That's right.  How much dust can we shovel into the truck before he gets here?"

  "Start the truck!" shouted Mookie.  They could hear the flapping of gigantic wings, 
a sure sign the old moon dragon was almost upon them.
Moogie started the engine and pressed the Accelerate lever with the short tentacle that 
extended from his belly button.  The truck started moving.
  "Faster, faster!" yelled Mookie.
  "The truck is full of moon dust!" answered Moogie.  "It takes time to speed up."
  They sat in the seats, listening to the heavy wings flapping above them.  Finally, their
truck was moving as fast as it could go:  2 meters per second.
  "How far to the tunnel entrance?" asked Mookie.
  "45 meters!"
  "How long will it take us to get to the safety of the tunnel?"

  Vrooom!  The moonies' truck drove into the entrance of the tunnel.  Seconds later they
heard the terrible sound of Old Borby's claws scratching at the rock outside, but they
knew he could not squeeze into the tunnel, nor could he dig through solid moon rock.
They were safe.  It was time to deliver their precious cargo to their friends.
  At the end of the tunnel was the moonie cavern.  The population, including the brave
moonies in the truck, was 18 moonies.
  "Gosh," said Moozie, walking up to the truck.  "You guys almost got caught by Old B!"
  "He got close enough to satisfy me!" said Mookie, climbing out of the truck, his knees
still wiggling in fear.
  All the moonies had plans for their share of the dust.  How many kilograms did each moonie get?

  "What you you going to do with your share of the dust?" Mookie asked Moozie.
  "Well, we each got a half kilogram," said Moozie.
  "Right," said Mookie.  "And kilo means thousand.  A kilogram is a thousand grams."
  "So, wait," said Moozie.  "How many grams did we each get?"

  "Ah!" said Moozie with a big smile.  "That's a lot!"
  "For what?" asked Mookie.
  "For making moon beads," she answered.  Moozie was good at making necklaces.
She touched the one she was wearing, one she had made weeks before.
I think I will be able to make enough beads to give everyone a necklace."
  "Are you sure?" asked Mookie.  "How many beads will go on each necklace?"
  "Well," said Moozie, "each bead takes a gram of dust, and I put 22 beads on each necklace."
  Will Moozie have enough dust to make enough beads to make a necklace for every moonie?
  
  How many grams of moon dust will Moozie have left over after making all the necklaces?

  Moozie walked over to the truck where Moogie was using his long eyebrow antenna to wipe
the windshield clean for its next adventure.
  "Here," said Moozie, handing him a necklace, "I made this for you."
  "Thank you!" said Moogie, wiping his eyebrow on his pant leg.  "It's very nice!"
  Moozie smiled and asked:  "What are you going to do with your share of dust?"
  Moogie licked his eyebrow clean.  "Well," he said, "I've been saving dust from all these trips 
outside the tunnel.  I'm planning to build a little house for my pet moon doog, Doogie."
  Hearing her name, Moogie's pet doog came running over to the truck on it's six short little legs,
its two tongues hanging out of its mouth, one on each side.  When it got to them it started
licking both Moogie and Moozie at the same time.
  Wiping doog saliva from her hand, Moozie asked Moogie:  "How much dust have you saved up?"
  Moogie thought about it.  "I've made 6 trips out in the truck, and each trip my share was
half a kilogram.  So, I should have..."
  How many kilograms has Moogie saved?

  "How will you make Doogie's new house?" Moozie asked Moogie.
  "I'm going to make bricks."
  "Oh," said Moozie.  "Like beads, only ... brickier."
  "Yeah," laughed Moogie.  "Bigger and more ... bricktangular."
  Now Moozie laughed.  She said, "How big will Doogie's house be?"
  At the sound of her name, the doog started licking Moozie with both tongues.
  "Stop that, Doogie," said Moogie.  Then he thought about Moozie's question.
"Well, it will have four walls.  Each wall will be 4 bricks wide and 9 bricks high."
  "That high?" asked Moozie, once again wiping doog slobber from her hands.
  "Well, Doogie isn't done growing," explained Moogie.  "But one wall of the house
will be the opening for Doogie's house.  So that wall will only need one third the number of bricks."
  "So," said Moozie, "that means the walls of the house will need a total of ... uh ... how many bricks?"

  Doogie was became excited about their conversation about his new house, and was trying to lick
their belly button tentacles.  Moogie and Moozie retracted their tentacles until only the tips
were showing, but the doog kept on jumping and licking anyway, tickling their tentacle tips.  
  "Doogie," said Moogie, "stop now.  Sit.  Good doog."
  "So," said Moozie, "120 bricks.  And you have 3 kilograms."
  "I know what you're thinking," said Moogie.  "Will I have enough dust to build the house."
  "I guess we need to know how much dust it takes to make a brick."
  Moogie said, "It takes 25 grams of dust to make a brick.  Will I have enough?"

  "Wow," said Moozie, "just barely enough!"
  "Oh ..." murmured Moogie, "... except ..."
  "Except what?" asked Moozie.
  Moogie extended his lips way out to make a tube that he bent around to Moozie's ear.  He whispered,
"Don't say anything to Doogie, but I wanted to make him a couple of toy balls too."
  "Oh," said Moozie.  Then she smiled.  "I have 104 grams of dust left over from making necklaces.
You can use that if you want."
  Moogie said, "The balls have to be heaver than 50 grams each.  Otherwise they'll be too 
small and Doogie might just swallow them.  Will the two balls be bigger than 50 grams each?"


  Just then, they heard a very loud thumping coming from the ceiling of their cavern.
  Two other moonies came running over.  Moogie and Moozie didn't notice them at first becuase 
they were staring up at the ceiling.
  "Moogie!" they said in unison.
  Moogie looked at them.  "Hi, Moobie.  Hi, Moopie.  What do you think that noise is?"
  Moozie asked, "Wasn't it just another meteor hitting the surface of the moon?"
  "If it was just one thump," said Moobie, "then that would probably be true."
  Thump!  Thump!  Thump!  Thump!
  Moopie said, "It sounds like Old Borby is dancing around up there.  And he only dances for
two reasons."
  Moozie asked, "What's the first reason?"
  "If he makes more than 150 thumps in a minute, it means he's found something delicious to eat."
  Moobie looked at the watch he worn on his belly tentacle.  "I'll count to 5 seconds, and you guys
count thumps."
  They counted thumps until Moobie said, "Stop!  That was 5 seconds.  How many thumps were there?"
  The other 3 moonies said, "12 thumps!"
  "So," Moozie asked, "12 thumps every 5 seconds ... is that more or less than 150 thumps per minute?"
  
  "Okay," said Moozie, "so we know that isn't the reason for Old Borby thumping around.
What does it mean when he dances more slowly?"
  Moobie started sucking on his eyebrow and Moopie started scratching his armpit with his belly tentacle.
  "Why are you guys looking so nervous?" Moozie demanded.
  Moogie said, "I'm nervous too."  His tentacle looked like it was trying to pet his eyebrow but
kept missing and almost poking him in the eye.
  "Why?" Moozie asked again.  "What does it mean when Old Borby dances like that?"
  Moobie pulled his eyebrow out of his mouth and said, "It means an egg hatched."
  "An egg?" said Moozie.  "You mean a ..."
  "Yes," said Moobie.  "A dragon egg.  There's a Baby Borby."
  Moogie jumped into the truck.  "Come on!  Get in!  We've got to go see it!"
  "Why?" asked Moozie.
  Moobie answered while climbing into the truck, "Because if it's a blue moon dragon, 
it will grow to Old Borby's size."
  "But if," continued Moopie, "a purple one will stay small and be able to crawl into our tunnel."
  The truck started moving.
  "But," yelled Moozie, bouncing up and into the truck, "isn't it dangerous to go out there now?"
  Moogie said, "Old B will dance for a whole day.  We have time to get to his cave and back."
  "Remind me how far it is," asked Moopie.
  "Twelve kilometers away," said Moobie.
  "And the truck goes 2 kilometers per hour," said Moogie.
  "So," asked Moozie, "how long will it take us to get there, see the baby, and get back?"
  

  As the four moonies left the tunnel in the truck, Moozie asked, "Won't Old Borby start chasing us?"
  Moobie looked out the rear window and said, "Nope.  He's really busy dancing."
  Moozie looked for herself.  The dragon was jumping around but was not looking at them.  Instead,
it was looking up.  So Moozie did too, and then asked: "Why is he dancing and looking at the Earth?"
  "That's where Old B's wife lives," said Moopie.  "She only comes to the Moon to mate with him
and lay her eggs."
  "And while Old Borgy is dancing," said Moobie, "he's singing in magical dragon language, telling
her the egg has hatched."
  "What's her name?" asked Moozie.  
  "We don't know," said Moogie.  
  "I like to call her Old Eggy," said Moopie.
  "I call her Momma Borby," said Moobie.
  "Do you think she will fly to the moon to see her new baby?" asked Moozie.
  "Of course," answered Moopie. 
  "That's a long way to go," muttered Moozie.
  "Yep," said Moogie.  "384,400 kilometers."
  "Wow," exclaimed Moozie.  "How fast does she fly?"
  "Well," said Moobie, "all I know is that it takes her 5 days to get here."
  "Hmmm," said Moozie, "so that means she flies ... ummm ... how many kilometers per hour?"


  "That's a lot faster than this truck can go," said Moogie.
  Mookie whispered to Moobie:  "How old is Moogie?"
  "He's 4 times as old as I am," answered Moobie.
  "How old are you?" asked Moozie.
  "I'm half as old as Moopie," said Moobie.
  "Hey, Moopie," Moozie said, "how old are you?"
  "Me?  Let me think ... oh, yeah, I'm 8."
  "So," thought Moozie, "that means Moogie is ..."

  "Well," said Moogie, "now that you know I'm an ancient moonie,
and you know how old Moop and Moob are, maybe you should tell us your age!"
  Moozie thought about it.
  Moobie kidded her:  "Can't remember how many candles were on your last birthday dust-cake?"
  But Moozie said, "You gave me a puzzle, so I'm going to give you one."  Finally, she said:
"I am 1 hundreth of the number of grams of moon dust I got today, plus the number of kilometers
per hour this truck can go, minus half the number of legs on Doogie.  So, how old am I?"

  As the truck got farther away from Old Borby, the dragon looked smaller and less threatening.
  "At this distance, he looks like a baby," said Moopie.  "A big, bouncing baby."
  "Speaking of distance," said Moobie, "how far to his big old dragon cave?"
  Moogie said, "We're almost there."  The truck suddenly tilted down.  
"The entrance to his cave is in the center of this huge crater."
  "Wow," said Moozie, "this is the biggest crater I've ever been in."
  "Yep," it's 38 kilometers across."
  "So," said Moopie, "it'll take us ... more than an hour to get there."
  Moogie laughed.  "A lot more than one hour."
  "Aw," said Moopie and Moobie together.
  Moozie started working out how long it would take to get to the cave.

  "Wait," said Moopie, "it can't be 38 kilometers across.  You're looking at the wrong crater on the map.
  "Oh," said Moogie, "you're right.  Uhhh, oh, here's the right one.  It's only 9 kilometers across."
  Moozie sighed and started again.

  "Finally," said Moogie loudly.  He could see the other moonies had been sleeping during the long
drive across the crater.
  "We're here?" yawned Moobie.
  They all got out of the truck.
  "I'm scared," said Moopie.
  Just then they heard a very loud squealing noise coming from the cave in the middle of the crater.
  Moopie jumped into Moogie's arms.  Moogie said, "It's time to be brave, young moonie," and dropped
Moopie into the thick moon dust of the crater.
  "It isn't time to run as fast as we can?" said Moopie, brushing moon dust from his eyebrow with his
tentacle, and then using his eyebrow to brush dust from his tentacle.
  "No," said Moogie.
  They heard another squeal from the cave.
  "Is that the baby?" asked Moobie.
  "Well," said Moogie, "it isn't the dragon's smoke detector."  He lead the way into the cave.
  They didn't go very far.  The baby dragon was learning to walk, and it was walking
out of the cave toward them.
  "Correction!" shouted Moogie.  "Now is the perfect time to run as fast as we can!"
  They turned and headed back toward the truck.  In the thick dust, they could only go 1 meter per second.
  Moozie looked back.  "It can go twice as fast as we can!"
  "It's 25 meters behind us!" yelled Moogie.  "And it's 15 meters to the truck!"
  "Will we make it in time?" shouted Moozie.

  
  They all jumped into the truck.
  "Drive!" the three younger moonies yelled.
  Moogie pushed the level with his belly tentacle, and the truck started moving.
  The truck can go 2 kilometers per hour.  
  The dragon was toddling through the dust at 2 meters per second.
  Which is faster, the truck or the baby dragon?

  "What do we do?" screamed Moopie.  "It'll eat the truck!  With us in it?"
  "We need to get out!" yelled Moobie.
  "Wait," Moozie said.  "It wants to eat!  What do baby dragons like to eat?"
  Moogie said, "Little moon rocks."
  "Like these?" Moozie said, pulling off her necklace of moon beads.
  "Just like those!" cheered Moogie.  "Off with the necklaces everyone!"
  Moozie was quickest.  She tossed her necklace at the dragon.  By then it was very near
and the necklace landed on one of the baby's toes.  
  The baby dragon stopped and looked down.  Then, it clumsily tried to grab the necklace with its beak.
  "It stopped!" yelled Moobie.  "Let's run!"
  Crunch, crunch, crunch!  The dragon had gotten hold of the necklace was quickly enjoying its treat.
When it had finished, it smiled and waved its wings.
  "Don't run," said Moogie, "let's feed it some more."  He tossed his necklace into the air and
the baby caught it in its beak.
  Crunch!  Crunch!  Crunch!  It gave Moogie another big smile.
  "Now do we run?" asked Moobie.
  "I think we'd better hope we've made friends with it," said Moopie.  He tossed his necklace.
  Crunch!  Crunch!  Crunch!  Smile.
  Moobie was shivering in fear, and held out his necklace.
The baby dragon gently plucked it from his fingers.
  Moogie started the truck and started driving out of the crater.  The baby dragon followed them.
It even used its nose to help push the truck up over the edge of the crater.  From there, it could
see Old Borby, far away, still dancing.  The dragon ran toward its daddy.
  The four moonies followed in their truck.
  Moozie pulled her moon phone from her pocket.  "We should tell everyone at home about the necklaces."
First she called her friend, Mootie.  "Moot!  It's me, Mooz!  Big news!  A baby dragon is heading your way!"
  "Oh, great," said Mootie.  "Will it dance on our roof, too?"
  "Maybe!" said Moozie, "It's a baby and we've learned you can make friends with it!"
  "Make friends with a dragon?  How'd you do that?"
  "By feeding it moon beads," said Moozie.  And then she wondered how many moon beads were still
in their cavern.

  
  Moozie said to Moogie:  "We fed the baby 88 beads.  If every moonie in the cavern gave up their 
necklaces, that would be another 308 beads.  Do you think that will be enough?"
  "Enough?" asked Moogie.  "It's a dragon, remember?"
  "But it's a purple one," said Moozie.  "Those are the ones that don't grow so large, right?"
  "Not much bigger than it's grown already," agreed Moogie.  "Maybe we should find out how much
a purple dragon eats every Earth day."
  Moobie's belly tentacle pulled his moon phone from his little moonie backpack.  "I'll Moogle it," 
he said.  He poked at the screen with his tentacle's tip, typing the question, and then said:
"Seems like purpe ones eat a hundred grams per day."
  "How many more beads would we need to feed it today?" asked Moopie.


  "How many days can we feed it with the beads still in the cavern?" asked Moobie.


  "That's not very long," said Moozie.  "We'll run out of beads before Old Eggy gets here."
  "We should tell everyone in the cavern to pack their suitcases!" said Moopie excitedly.
  "Unless," said Moogie, "we make beads using the dust I've saved for making bricks for Doogie's house."
  Moozie said, "Three kilograms.  That's enough to feed it for ... how long?"


  "Wow," said Moopie.  "It will be our pet by then.  We should name it?"
  "Old Purpley?" suggested Moobie.
  "It won't be old after only a month," said Moozie.
  "Oh," said Moobie, "yeah."
  "How about Baby P?" asked Moopie.
  "Hmm," said Moozie.
  Moogie said:  "I think we can worry about a name later.  For now, I think we should stop next to 
this pile of gravel and get out with the shovels."
  "Why?" asked the other three.
  "To fill the truck with dragon chow."
  "Oh," said Moobie, "I don't like shoveling."
  "Would you rather have a big hungry purple thing chasing you to see if you have another 
necklace?" asked Moogie.
  Moobie said:  "Wait, did you say shoveling?  Suddenly, I love shoveling.  Which end of the shovel
do I use?"
  The shoveled gravel quickly at first.  Each moonie added 3 shovelsful each minute.
They did that for 4 minutes, but then they got tired.  How many shovelsful had they put in 
the truck?

48 = 4 * 4 * 3
  
  For the next 3 minutes each moonie could only put 2 shovelsful into the truck each minute.  
  "I think I've changed my mind again," said Moobie.
  "We can do more," said Moogie.  
  How many shovelsful were in the truck now?

24 = 4 * 3 * 2 
48 + 24 = 72

  Finally, they went for another minute, but by then
they had slowed to a single shovelful per minute for each moonie.  
Then they were all exhausted and had to stop.  
  Moobie flopped onto his back in the dust.  "Definately," he muttered.  "Don't.  Like.  Shoveling."
  "Good job, everyone," said the ancient moonie.  "This is a full load."
  How many total grams of gravel were in the truck?

4 = 4 * 1 * 1
72 + 4 = 76
76 * 500 = 38,000 grams

  Bleepie bloop!  Bleepie bloop!  Moozie said:  "It's Mootie calling me again."  She tentacled
the screen on her phone:  "What's up, Moot?"
  "The noise!" said her friend.  In the background, Moozie could hear what her friend was talking 
about:  Th-thump, thump, thump-ump, thump, thumpity-thump!  "I thought one dancing dragon was bad!"
  Moozie told the others, and they all looked toward their cavern.  Indeed, Old Borby was still
dancing, ignoring the baby dragon who was jumping up and down trying to get his attention.
  "Maybe the baby wants more to eat," said Moopie.
  Moozie said into her phone, "Hey, Moot, we--"
  "Talk louder!" said Mootie.
  "It's the baby dragon!" said Moozie.  "We fed it beads from our necklaces!"
  "You fed it?!" said Mootie.  "Do you still have all your fingers?!"
  "It was gentle!" answered Moozie.  "But it ate them all really quickly!"
  "Okay!" said her friend.  "I've got an idea!"
  "What's your idea?" asked Moozie, but Mootie had hung up.
  The other three moonies were looking at Moozie.  She said:  "Mootie's got an idea."
  Moogie said:  "Uh-oh.  Get in the truck you guys."
  They started driving back.  As they neared the entrance to the tunnel leading to their cavern,
they could see the baby dragon was trying to peck at Old Borby's toes while the big dragon
continued dancing.  Then they heard a familiar buzzing sound.
  "That's Mootie's mootorcycle!" said Moozie.  A second later, out of the tunnel rode
Mootie.  She had her helmet on, and behind her was another moonie sitting backward on the seat.
  "Who's that on the back?" asked Moobie.  It was hard to tell because that moonie was
wearing a helmet too.
  Then Mootie turned the mootorcycle.  Then they could see the face of the other moonie.
  "It's Mooxie!" said Moopie.
  Mooxie was wearing all the other moon bead necklaces that Moozie had made.
  Moogie stopped the truck and the 4 moonies watched as Mooxie broke the string of a necklace
and tossed a bead behind the mootorcycle.
  The baby dragon watched, too.  Then it started toddling toward the bead.  Crunch!
  The mootorcycle zoomed along, much faster than the truck could go, and Mooxie kept tossing
beads.  Zoom!  Toss!  Toddle!  Crunch!
  "Hey, Moozie," said Moogie.  "You put 22 beads on each necklace, right?"
  Zoom!  Toss!
  "Yep!" answered Moozie.
  Toddle!  Crunch!
  Moobie asked:  "How many necklaces does Mooxie have?"
  Zoom!  Toss!
  Moogie looked through his monocular and counted.  "Looks like every necklace Moozie made."
  Toddle!  Crunch!
  "So," said Moopie, "there are 18 moonies..."
  "But remember," said Moozie, we fed ours to the dragon already."
  "Oh," said Moopie, "right.  So, 14 necklaces ... 22 beads each ... that's how many beads?"

14 * 22 = 308

  "And Mooxie is tossing a bead every 6 seconds," said Moogie.
  "How many seconds until they run out of beads?"

1848

  The 4 moonies in the truck watched as Mootie and Mooxie led the baby dragon around in big
circles.  
  "Wow," said Moopie, "they're giving it some real exercise!"
  "I think Mootie's mootorcycle goes 7 meters per second," said Moozie.  "How far will
they make the baby dragon run before they run out of beads?"
  "I'll bet that's more than 13 kilometers," said Moobie trying to count on his fingers.
  "Naw," said Moopie, "less than that."
  Which moonie is right?

12936 Moopie is right.

  Mootie stopped driving in circles and started driving in a straight line away from the moonie cavern.
  The baby dragon kept chasing because Mooxie kept tossing beads.
  "How many necklaces does Mooxie have left?" asked Moozie.
  Moogie squinted and said, "Twelve.  How many beads is that?"

264

  "Hey," said Moozie, "Mootie is driving away in a straight line now."
  Moobie asked:  "How many seconds before Mooxie runs out of beads?"

264 * 6 = 1584

  "Can I use your moonocular?" asked Moobie.  Before Moogie could say yes or no, Moobie 
grabbed it from Moogie's hand and pulled.  
  "Ouch!" yelped Moogie.  "Wait until I talk the moonocular strap off my eyestalk!
Why can't you young moonies show more respect for an ancient moonie like me."
  Moobie stopped pulling.
  "There," said Moogie, rubbing his eyestalk with his eyebrow.  "Have a look for yourself."
  Moobie looked through the wrong end of the moonocular and said, "Wow, they're farther
away that I thought!"
  "Maybe turn that thing around," said Moogie.
  "Oh," said Moobie.
  "Yeah," said Moogie, "oh."
  While Moobie played with the moonocular, Moogie said:  "The mootorcycle goes 7 meters per second."
  "So," asked Moopie, "how many meters away will they be when Mooxie runs of of beads?"

1584 * 7 = 11088

  "The dragon toddles at 2 meters per second.  How far away will it be when Mooxie runs out of beads?"
Moobie wondered.

1584 * 2 = 3168

  "So," asked Moopie, "how far behind will the baby dragon be?"
  "Hmmm," said Moobie, curling his eyebrow left and right, "less than 7 kilometers I'm guessing."
  Moopie said:  "Wow, neither your fingers nor your eyebrow can do math today.  It's more than that."
  Is Moopie right again?

Yes.  11088 - 3168 = 7920 meters

  "Oh, look," said Moobie, using his belly tentacle to adjust the focus on the moonocular, 
"the baby dragon has stopped.  I think it's tired."
  "No wonder," said Moozie, "it's been chasing a mootorcycle."
  They drove their slow moon truck toward the baby dragon.  It was sitting in the dust now.
  Mooxie had also noticed the baby dragon had stopped.  He must have told Mootie because the 
mootorcycle had turned around and was coming back.  It stopped at every bead Mooxie had tossed
that the baby dragon hadn't eaten, so it took them a while to get to the truck.
As they got closer, they could see the baby dragon looking at them.
  "It's smiling at us again!" said Mootie.
  "It's panting, too," said Mooxie.  "It's probably thirsty.  Let's give it a drink."
  Mootie stopped the mootorcycle next to the baby dragon and Mooxie held out his water bottle.
The baby dragon delicately reached out with its beak, took the water bottle and ate it.
  "Hey!" said Mooxie.
  The baby dragon reached out again and nibbled off one of the mootorcycle's mirrors.
  "Hey!" said Mootie.  She started driving back toward the cavern and the baby dragon got to 
its paws and started chasing them.

  "Are you throwing beads at it?" yelled Mootie over her shoulder.
  "Why bother?" Mooxie yelled in Mootie's ear.  "It's just as interested in eating the 
mootorcycle!"
  Toddle, toddle, toddle, flap!  Flap!  Toddle, flap!  Toddle, flap, flap, flap!
  "Oh, no!" said Moobie.
  Moozie tried to look through the moonocular.
  "One eye at a time!" snarled Moobie.  "Oh, no!"
  "Either tell me what you see or give me that thing!"
  "It's flapping!" said Moobie.
  "The mootorcycle?"
  Moobie poked his belly tentacle sideways at Moozie's armpit.
  Moobie turned to look at Moozie through the moonocular and was so startled by the size of her
eyebrow that he jumped and the moonocular flew up into what would be the air if the moon had air.
  Moozie grabbed the moonocular and turned toward the approaching mootorcycle.  What she saw
made her jump up into the ... well, you know.
  The baby dragon was hopping off the ground as it got used to flapping it's wings.  As it flapped
more and toddled less, the faster it could go.  
  "Oh, no!" yelled Moozie.
  "What?  What's happening?" yelled Moobie, trying to grab the moonocular again.
  They fell into the dust wrestling for it.
  "Oh, no!" yelled Mooxie.
  "What?  What?" yelled Mootie.  But she soon found out.  The baby dragon had landed on the
back of the mootorcycle.  Excitedly flapping its wings, it reached over Mooxie's shoulder,
over Mootie's shoulder, and nibbled off the other mirror of the mootorcycle.
  Happily crunching the mirror, the baby dragon flapped its wings faster, making the mootorcycle
speed up.
  Mootie squeezed the brake lever on the handlebar, but the mootorcycle didn't slow down.
She looked down and saw that the wheels were 10 centimeters above the dust.
Terrified, she looked back to see the baby dragon was grabbing the seat in its claws.
Every second, the baby dragon's flapping lifted the mootorcycle another 10 centimeters higher.
  "We'll break bones if we fall more than 3 meters!" yelled Mooxie, trying to slide forward on
the seat.
  "Right!  We'll have to jump!" yelled Mootie.
  Meanwhile, Moobie and Moozie had stopped wrestling.  Sitting in the dust, they stared at
the flying mootorcycle.  
  Moobie asked: "How many seconds before they have to jump, Mooz?"

10 cm/sec, 3m max, starting 10 cm up:  29 seconds.
